JOYY (NASDAQ:YY) Coverage Initiated by Analysts at StockNews.com Posted by on Apr 9th, 2025 Get JOYY alerts: Separately, Benchmark raised shares of JOYY from a “hold” rating to a “buy” rating in a research report on Tuesday, February 25th. JOYY Stock Down 0.7 % opened at $38.85 on Wednesday. JOYY has a twelve month low of $27.88 and a twelve month high of $55.31. The company has a market cap of $2.09 billion, a P/E ratio of 11.74 and a beta of 0.21. The business has a 50 day moving average price of $45.63 and a two-hundred day moving average price of $40.60. Institutional Trading of JOYY Institutional investors and hedge funds have recently added to or reduced their stakes in the company. SBI Securities Co. Ltd. bought a new stake in JOYY in the fourth quarter valued at approximately $25,000. Global Retirement Partners LLC increased its holdings in shares of JOYY by 71.5% during the 4th quarter. Global Retirement Partners LLC now owns 1,072 shares of the information services provider’s stock worth $45,000 after acquiring an additional 447 shares during the last quarter. Rhumbline Advisers raised its stake in JOYY by 63.0% in the 4th quarter. Rhumbline Advisers now owns 1,319 shares of the information services provider’s stock valued at $55,000 after acquiring an additional 510 shares during the period. Raiffeisen Bank International AG acquired a new stake in JOYY during the 4th quarter valued at $85,000. Finally, BI Asset Management Fondsmaeglerselskab A S boosted its position in JOYY by 54.8% during the fourth quarter. BI Asset Management Fondsmaeglerselskab A S now owns 2,495 shares of the information services provider’s stock worth $104,000 after purchasing an additional 883 shares during the period. 36.83% of the stock is owned by institutional investors. About JOYY ( ) JOYY Inc, together with its subsidiaries, operates social media platforms that offer users engaging and experience across various video-based social platforms. It operates through two segments, BIGO and All Other. The company operates Bigo Live, a social live streaming platform, that provides an interactive online stage for users to host and watch live streaming sessions, share their life moments, showcase their talents, and interact with people worldwide; Likee, a short-form video social platform, which enables users to discover, create, and share short videos, with video creation tools and personalized feeds; imo, an instant messenger platform, that provides audio and video communication services; Hago, a social networking platform that offers casual games integrating social features, such as audio and video multi-user chatrooms and 3D virtual interactive party games; and Shopline, a smart commerce platform, that provides solutions and services to enable merchants in creating and growing their brands online and reach customers through various sales channels, including e-commerce platforms, social commerce, and physical retail stores. Featured Articles Receive News & Ratings for JOYY Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for JOYY and related companies with .