By The must improve significantly in 2025 if general manager and head coach hope to keep their jobs in 2026 and beyond. However, a former Giant said the team is not a playoff contender in its current form. Appearing on ESPN’s podcast with Kevin Clark, former Giants wide receiver Amani Toomer was asked whether he thought the team had a chance to make the playoffs this year. Toomer said he still must see what moves the Giants make in the draft and whether they sign additional free agents. The early prognosis, he said, is that the roster is flawed—much like the current fluctuations in the financial industry. “I feel like it has some good pieces, but they don’t seem to be working together to create a real sense of unity where everyone is on the same page,” Toomer told Clark. “It seems a little disjointed—like we have a great defensive line, and then one person gets hurt, and suddenly the entire defensive line struggles. The depth of this roster is a problem. The tackling ability on defense is a problem.” “The big-play ability on offense is a problem,” Toomer continued. “The offensive line actually improved last year, but the quarterback play didn’t improve, even though the running game did. It’s like one thing goes up while another goes down—like watching the stock market. You just want everything to rise together and elevate the entire team with depth and cohesion, but that hasn’t happened in a long, long time.” Toomer also said the Giants must improve their draft selections—especially in the later rounds—and suggested wide receiver could use additional support. “I think Nabers had a good year,” he said. “But I just don’t know how sustainable it is to throw the ball to one receiver so much. Not to say anything against him. I just feel like he needs to become much more efficient to solidify himself as a top receiver in the league.” Thank you for relying on us to provide the journalism you can trust. Please consider supporting us with a subscription. Chris Franklin may be reached at cfranklin@njadvancemedia.com. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our