In a surprising move, the partners at — one of Hollywood’s highest-profile publicity firms that represents a long list of A-list stars, creators, talent and events — are dissolving the company. The development was confirmed Thursday morning in a brief statement sharing that after 15 years together, the partners Stephen Huvane, Simon Halls, Robin Baum, Ina Treciokas and Andy Gelb have all “decided to move forward on separate paths.” The statement added that Treciokas will soon announce her next venture while the others, Huvane, Halls, Baum and Gelb, will “do the same.” Related Stories “The partners depart with mutual respect and appreciation for their joint accomplishments at Slate PR,” per a statement received by The Hollywood Reporter. “The partners sincerely thank their clients, colleagues and industry peers for their support throughout the years. They remain committed to providing thoughtful and strategic communications guidance in their new ventures.” That announcement of a new venture came sooner rather than later and revealed that four of Slate PR’s founders are sticking together. Shortly after the news published, Deadline reported that the core group of Huvane, Baum, Halls and Gelb have formed a new firm called Apex Public Relations. The full-service PR and communications company “begins immediately,” per Deadline , and is fully staffed. “We are excited to continue this amazing and longstanding partnership as we launch APEX,” the partners said in a statement obtained by THR . “We feel like we struck gold when we first joined forces way back when, with all of our individual strengths combining to make an extraordinarily cohesive and successful team. We are very much looking forward to continuing that in this next, exciting venture.” As part of what one insider referred to as “rebranding,” Apex launches with a new board of managing partners including Guido Gotz, Lindsay Maguire, Scott Newman, Jennifer Plante, Shawn Purdy and Megan Senior. The new board will be tasked with “day-to-day management of Apex and will be key in setting the company’s agenda for future and long-term growth and success.” The Apex reveal also confirmed that the “entirety” of the partners’ clients will join at the new venture along with “the vast majority” of Slate staffers. Slate PR was a full-scale entertainment public relations firm founded in January 2010 by Huvane, Baum, Halls, Treciokas and Gelb. The firm specialized in celebrity, events and brands and maintained offices in L.A. and New York. It was best known as the home to a long list of A-list stars, filmmakers and Hollywood insiders. Listing clients can be a delicate process as no one likes to be left off though it’s a necessary endeavor when it comes to Slate as it was home to so much talent. Huvane has repped , Anne Hathaway, Zendaya, Kirsten Dunst, Julianne Moore, Drew Barrymore, Anya Taylor-Joy, Eva Mendes, Gwyneth Paltrow, Helen Hunt, Lana Del Rey and many more. Baum’s client roster has included Ryan Gosling, Chris Hemsworth, Jared Leto, Dakota Johnson, Naomi Watts, Elle and Dakota Fanning, Taron Egerton, Lily-Rose Depp, Evan Peters, Benicio Del Toro, Orlando Bloom, James Franco, Antonio Banderas, Gia Coppola and many more. Halls has maintained a power roster that covers talent from behind and in front of cameras, including George Clooney, Ryan Murphy, Ridley Scott, Amy Pascal, Greg Berlanti, Michael Patrick King, Billie Lourd, Frances McDormand, Billy Crudup, Sam Mendes, Nathan Lane, Annette Bening, Matthew Broderick, Joe Alwyn, Ang Lee, John Wells, Tom Ford, Rob Marshall, Tate Taylor, Tim Bevan, James Schamus, Eric Fellner and many more. Treciokas reps Harrison Ford, Sarah Jessica Parker, Woody Harrelson, Justin Theroux, Liev Schrieber, Lee Pace, Allison Janney, Owen Wilson, Anna Paquin, Mike Myers, Ben Kingsley, John Leguizamo, David Schwimmer, Anjelica Huston, George Lopez and many more. Gelb oversees the enviable events department that steers many of the town’s top events including the Vanity Fair Oscar party, Glamour Women of the Year, the GLAAD Awards, the Critics Choice Awards, Human Rights Campaign, Elle ’s Women in Hollywood Awards, the Tony Awards, Westminster Kennel Club, Wondery, IMDbPro, MPTF, and many high-profile premieres and events for the likes of Netflix and beyond. Apex marks the latest chapter in a long history for the close-knit group of Huvane, Baum and Halls. The trio formed the Huvane, Baum and Halls firm (known as HBH for short) in the summer of 1994. Then in 2001, they joined forces with PR powerhouse PMK to form the entity PMK/HBH. Events guru Gelb joined PMK/HBH at the same time. They stayed under the PMK/HBH umbrella until 2010, at which time they split off on their own to form Slate PR. THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day