Sticker Mule Deletes Trump Post From Instagram Sticker Mule Deletes Trump Post From Instagram Advertisement Sticker Mule scrubs pro-Trump posts from Instagram Observers on social media noticed a change. Posted on April 10 2025 12:18 pm CDT (Licensed) Sticker Mule, an online sticker merchandising firm that blew up in the public eye with a following an assassination attempt on President Donald Trump, appears to have cleared its Instagram account of any political support. Featured Video The missing content was first noted by Bluesky user @kwatrousceramics, who claimed that the sticker company not only “scrubbed all their pro-trump posts,” but was “deleting comments that bring it up fast af,” flagging a of hers that she said had been removed. @kwatrousceramics called out Sticker Mule’s co-founder and CEO Anthony Constantino, who openly pushed his support for Trump in the 2024 election on social media, in news outlets, and on an extremely large billboard. “This is ur reminder they had a 100+ foot pro-trump sign installed on their building just 6 months ago,” Kinnaley posted. “NO TAKE BACKS, ANTHONY. WE MEMBA.” Advertisement The Daily Dot was unable to confirm exactly when Sticker Mule took down its Instagram posts. Sticker Mule was a popular online business before it infuriated many of its customers with Constantino’s political—specifically pro-Trump—discourse in the wake of the July assassination attempt. He wrote an email from the company to its customers in response to the first assassination attempt Trump faced in Butler, Pennsylvania. The email, with the subject line “Trump 2024,” said that he did not “care what your political views are but the hate for Trump and his supporters has gone too far.” Advertisement Sticker Mule further by replying to comments and sharing customer emails. A similar message was shared on Sticker Mule’s Instagram on July 15, two days after the assassination attempt, but is no longer visible. The Daily Dot reached out to Sticker Mule for comment. Some also added they received a from Sticker Mule earlier this week, even after previously unsubscribing, accusing the company of trying to dupe customers into coming back Advertisement But the deleted posts don’t square with Constantino’s current political moves, complicating the matter. Constantino was plotting a —with his ’s site along with a magnet. He the seat Rep Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.) would have vacated had Trump not pulled her nomination as UN ambassador. Constantino even hired “President Trump’s pollster to give my campaign credible data.” Advertisement Constantino for a poll that showed him winning a special election in Stefanik’s district. That’s not his only connection to Trump, though. Constantino, who is the sole owner of Sticker Mule, erected a 100-foot-wide, 12-foot-tall glowing “VOTE FOR TRUMP” sign in downtown Amsterdam, New York. The sign stood atop the headquarters of Sticker Mule and was unveiled in a lighting ceremony that went ahead despite the town’s mayor’s concerns that it was against code and would pose a distraction to passing motorists. Advertisement Constantino said it was a part of free speech and unity. Sticker Mule previously had Instagram posts and Reels about the sign, including one that described the story behind the billboard on Oct. 7. A post from Oct. 21, asked Instagram users, “Did our ‘Vote for Trump’ sign change the election?” A month earlier, on Sept. 7, there was a video from Constantino on the page addressing “all the fans and haters” to explain his political and marketing stance. On Feb. 20, Sticker Mule also posted to Instagram a “STATEMENT ON TRUMP LANDSLIDE.” Advertisement Those all appear removed. But on other social channels, remains. Constantino he was speaking out because “far too many influential people stay silent because they do the risk-reward calculation and fear retaliation.” “America loves Trump. His leadership delivered a landslide victory and an outpouring of bipartisanship support,” said Constantino in a Advertisement Internet culture is chaotic—but we’ll break it down for you in one daily email. Sign up for the Daily Dot’s web_crawlr newsletter . You’ll get the best (and worst) of the internet straight into your inbox . Share this article Link copied! TAGS First published: Apr 10, 2025, 12:18 pm CDT Monica Sager is based in Boston and focuses her reporting on politics and tech. She is a graduate of Clark University, with a master’s from both Clark University and Northwestern University. She was part of the team named a finalist for the Goldsmith Prize for Investigation as well as a winner of the George Polk award for their work uncovering Phillips Respironics wrongdoings with its breathing machines.