Up Next Previous Page Next Page was the subject of a relentless bullying campaign while live-streaming a popular video game on X. While listening to his ex, ’ song ‘So Heavy I Fell Through the Earth’ – Musk looked vacant as he read through the nonstop thread of brutal messages for more than an hour and a half. Musk had begun live-streaming himself playing the video game Path of Exile 2 on his private jet when the taunting began. ‘Elon, it’s me, Ashley St. Claire. I have no other means of contacting you so I bought PoE2 early access just for this. Please pay your child support. Thank you, Elon,’ one message read. Chat name ‘Elon Musk is pathetic’ wrote: ‘You ruined the country just like you ruined all of your marriages.’ Elon, looking more agitated near the end of the one minute clip, suddenly said: ‘Oh, we lost connection,’ before his character was killed in the game and he ended the stream. He later deleted his live stream on X, but the lengthy video was quickly reuploaded on YouTube and Reddit. At one moment in the video, Elon used a slur, remarking: ‘There are a lot of r*****s in this chat.’ Elon previously expressed an interest in creating his own video game studio, claiming that In response to someone on X complaining about how games companies have been ‘ideologically captured,’ Musk pledged to set up a dedicated games studio under . Ironically, Musk seems to be doing this because there are ‘ .’ More 10 hours ago By But Musk runs multiple massive companies – X, Tesla, SpaceX, OpenAI, and more. Despite his many ventures, and wishes to enter the video game industry, President Donald Trump Quite telling. ‘I will create a government efficiency commission,’ Trump said at the time. ‘We need to do it – can’t go on the way we are now. And Elon, because he’s not very busy, has agreed to head that task force.’ Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at . For more stories like this, . Arrow MORE: Arrow MORE: Arrow MORE: Breaking News Never miss the biggest stories with breaking news alerts in your inbox. Email I agree to receive newsletters from Metro I agree to receive newsletters from Metro Sign Up Sign Up This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the and apply. Your information will be used in line with our