Levi & Korsinsky Announces the Filing of a Securities Class Action on Behalf of Alarum Technologies Ltd. (ALAR) Shareholders - Alarum Technologies (NASDAQ:ALAR) - Benzinga My Account Login Login Register Trade Ideas Best Stocks & ETFs Trade Ideas Best Stocks & ETFs Calendars Trade Ideas Short Interest Calculators Screeners Recent Markets April 10, 2025 1:01 PM 2 min read Levi & Korsinsky Announces the Filing of a Securities Class Action on Behalf of Alarum Technologies Ltd. (ALAR) Shareholders by Follow Add Comment Stock Score Locked: Want to See it? Benzinga Rankings give you vital metrics on any stock – anytime. Edge Rankings Momentum 9.35 Growth 84.83 Quality - Value 83.72 Price Trend Short Medium Long Comments Close menu Loading... NEW YORK, April 10, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Levi & Korsinsky, LLP notifies investors in Alarum Technologies Ltd. ("Alarum Technologies Ltd." or the "Company") ALAR of a class action securities lawsuit. CLASS DEFINITION: The lawsuit seeks to recover losses on behalf of Alarum Technologies Ltd. investors who were adversely affected by alleged securities fraud between March 14, 2024 and August 26, 2024. Follow the link below to get more information and be contacted by a member of our team: ALAR investors may also contact Joseph E. Levi, Esq. via email at or by telephone at (212) 363-7500. CASE DETAILS: The filed complaint alleges that defendants made false statements and/or concealed that: (i) the Company was less effective in retaining and/or expanding customer engagements than it had represented to investors; (ii) the foregoing would impair Alarum's ability to generate consistent revenue growth; (iii) accordingly, Alarum's business and/or financial prospects were overstated; and (iv) as a result, the Company's public statements were materially false and misleading at all relevant times. WHAT'S NEXT? If you suffered a loss in Alarum Technologies Ltd. during the relevant time frame, you have until April 15, 2025 to request that the Court appoint you as lead plaintiff. Your ability to share in any recovery doesn't require that you serve as a lead plaintiff. NO COST TO YOU: If you are a class member, you may be entitled to compensation without payment of any out-of-pocket costs or fees. There is no cost or obligation to participate. WHY LEVI & KORSINSKY: Over the past 20 years, the team at Levi & Korsinsky has secured hundreds of millions of dollars for aggrieved shareholders and built a track record of winning high-stakes cases. Our firm has extensive expertise representing investors in complex securities litigation and a team of over 70 employees to serve our clients. For seven years in a row, Levi & Korsinsky has ranked in ISS Securities Class Action Services' Top 50 Report as one of the top securities litigation firms in the United States. CONTACT: Levi & Korsinsky, LLP Joseph E. Levi, Esq. Ed Korsinsky, Esq. 33 Whitehall Street, 17th Floor New York, NY 10004 Tel: (212) 363-7500 Fax: (212) 363-7171 Stock Score Locked: Want to See it? Benzinga Rankings give you vital metrics on any stock – anytime. Edge Rankings Momentum 9.35 Growth 84.83 Quality - Value 83.72 Price Trend Short Medium Long © 2025 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Posted In: Benzinga simplifies the market for smarter investing Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about. Already a member? Popular Channels Tools & Features Partners & Contributors About Benzinga © 2025 Benzinga | All Rights Reserved