Google joins OpenAI in adopting Anthropic's protocol for connecting AI agents - why it matters | ZDNET X Innovation Google joins OpenAI in adopting Anthropic's protocol for connecting AI agents - why it matters Weeks earlier, OpenAI embraced the Model Context Protocol. Finally, AI rivals are cooperating on something. Written by April 10, 2025 at 10:06 a.m. PT Three major companies -- normally rivals -- appear to have found some common ground. On Wednesday, Google announced that it will support Anthropic's (MCP). This protocol lets AI systems -- including agents -- access data stores, developer spaces, and business applications for better performance. Specifically, support will go to models and its (SDK). Also: The news follows OpenAI's that it would adopt MCP, first with its SDK. OpenAI CEO Sam Altman said MCP would also eventually be available for ChatGPT on desktop and in the app, though it is unclear when. Though the proliferation of -- assistants that help complete a range of tasks, sometimes autonomously -- seems endless (and increasingly impressive), they're only as good as the data they have access to. Especially in high-security and enterprise settings, agents need to be integrated with every system and data source individually, which can be tedious and hard to scale. MCP, which Anthropic late last year, solves this by providing a single standard. Alongside the release, Anthropic provided pre-built servers for commonly used enterprise software, including Google Drive, GitHub, and Slack. Also: "MCP is a good protocol, and it's rapidly becoming an open standard for the AI agentic era," said Demis Hassabis, co-founder and CEO of Google DeepMind. "We're excited to announce that we'll be supporting it for our Gemini models and SDK. Look forward to developing it further with the MCP team and others in the industry." Other companies that have embraced MCP include , Apollo, Zed, Replit, Codeium, and Sourcegraph. The shift to using more open-source tools, including at the enterprise level, could indicate a larger sea change in the tech industry, especially as more companies invest in AI agents as the technology's next frontier. Hassabis did not clarify when Google would support MCP. Artificial Intelligence Show Comments Related