ROSEN, RECOGNIZED INVESTOR COUNSEL, Encourages Semtech Corporation Investors to Secure Counsel Before Important April 22 Deadline in Securities Class Action – SMTC - Semtech (NASDAQ:SMTC) - Benzinga My Account Login Login Register Trade Ideas Best Stocks & ETFs Trade Ideas Best Stocks & ETFs Calendars Trade Ideas Short Interest Calculators Screeners Recent Markets April 10, 2025 1:24 PM 3 min read ROSEN, RECOGNIZED INVESTOR COUNSEL, Encourages Semtech Corporation Investors to Secure Counsel Before Important April 22 Deadline in Securities Class Action – SMTC by Follow Add Comment Stock Score Locked: Want to See it? Benzinga Rankings give you vital metrics on any stock – anytime. Edge Rankings Momentum 30.96 Growth 3.27 Quality - Value 23.91 Price Trend Short Medium Long Comments Close menu Loading... NEW YORK, April 10, 2025 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- WHY: Rosen Law Firm, a global investor rights law firm, reminds purchasers of securities of Semtech Corporation SMTC between August 27, 2024 and February 7, 2025, both dates inclusive (the "Class Period"), of the important April 22, 2025 lead plaintiff deadline. SO WHAT: If you purchased Semtech securities during the Class Period you may be entitled to compensation without payment of any out of pocket fees or costs through a contingency fee arrangement. WHAT TO DO NEXT: To join the Semtech class action, go to or call Phillip Kim, Esq. toll-free at 866-767-3653 or email for information on the class action. A class action lawsuit has already been filed. If you wish to serve as lead plaintiff, you must move the Court no later than April 22, 2025. A lead plaintiff is a representative party acting on behalf of other class members in directing the litigation. WHY ROSEN LAW: We encourage investors to select qualified counsel with a track record of success in leadership roles. Often, firms issuing notices do not have comparable experience, resources, or any meaningful peer recognition. Many of these firms do not actually litigate securities class actions, but are merely middlemen that refer clients or partner with law firms that actually litigate the cases. Be wise in selecting counsel. The Rosen Law Firm represents investors throughout the globe, concentrating its practice in securities class actions and shareholder derivative litigation. Rosen Law Firm achieved the largest ever securities class action settlement against a Chinese Company at the time. Rosen Law Firm was Ranked No. 1 by ISS Securities Class Action Services for number of securities class action settlements in 2017. The firm has been ranked in the top 4 each year since 2013 and has recovered hundreds of millions of dollars for investors. In 2019 alone the firm secured over $438 million for investors. In 2020, founding partner Laurence Rosen was named by law360 as a Titan of Plaintiffs' Bar. Many of the firm's attorneys have been recognized by Lawdragon and Super Lawyers. DETAILS OF THE CASE: According to the lawsuit, throughout the Class Period, defendants made false and misleading statements and/or failed to disclose that: (1) Semtech's CopperEdge products did not meet the needs of its server rack customer or end users; (2) that, as a result, the CopperEdge products required certain rack architecture changes; (3) as a result of the foregoing, Semtech's sales of CopperEdge products would not ramp-up during the 2026 fiscal year; (4) as a result, sales of CopperEdge products would be lower-than-expected; and (5) as a result of the foregoing, defendants' positive statements about Semtech's business, operations, and prospects were materially misleading and/or lacked a reasonable basis. When the true details entered the market, the lawsuit claims that investors suffered damages. To join the Semtech class action, go to call Phillip Kim, Esq. toll-free at 866-767-3653 or email for information on the class action. No Class Has Been Certified. Until a class is certified, you are not represented by counsel unless you retain one. You may select counsel of your choice. You may also remain an absent class member and do nothing at this point. An investor's ability to share in any potential future recovery is not dependent upon serving as lead plaintiff. Follow us for updates on LinkedIn: or on Twitter: or on Facebook: . Attorney Advertising. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Contact Information: Laurence Rosen, Esq. Phillip Kim, Esq. The Rosen Law Firm, P.A. 275 Madison Avenue, 40th Floor New York, NY 10016 Tel: (212) 686-1060 Toll Free: (866) 767-3653 Fax: (212) 202-3827 Stock Score Locked: Want to See it? Benzinga Rankings give you vital metrics on any stock – anytime. Edge Rankings Momentum 30.96 Growth 3.27 Quality - Value 23.91 Price Trend Short Medium Long © 2025 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Posted In: Benzinga simplifies the market for smarter investing Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about. Already a member? Popular Channels Tools & Features Partners & Contributors About Benzinga © 2025 Benzinga | All Rights Reserved