POTTSVILLE — More than 900 area high school students explored career and higher education opportunities Thursday at the Schuylkill County Career Fair. From leading manufacturers and distribution centers to trade schools and government agencies, the event at Martz Hall offered something for all students aspiring to build a career in Schuylkill County and beyond. The 15th edition of the fair, hosted by the Northeast PA Manufacturers & Employers Council and its YES (Your Employability Skills) Program, drew about 915 students from 14 schools to speak to approximately 50 vendors set up in the gym, which included employers, educational institutions, military branches, nonprofits and community agencies. Emma Gutierrez Zamudio, an 11th grader at Shenandoah Valley who wants to become a registered nurse, specifically sought out vendors who could guide her in that direction. She said she enjoyed learning about the Joseph F. McCloskey School of Nursing. “I feel like it’s interesting,” she said of the nursing field, “and I get to help people out.” Students venture around the court of Martz Hall talking to various businesses, universities and organizations at the Schuylkill County Career Fair in Pottsville, Thursday, April 10, 2025. (MATTHEW PERSCHALL/MULTIMEDIA EDITOR) Students talk with State Trooper Martin Bibla during the Schuylkill County Career Fair at Martz Hall in Pottsville, Thursday, April 10, 2025. (MATTHEW PERSCHALL/MULTIMEDIA EDITOR) Minersville junior Hunter Pytak, left, Mahanoy junior Damian Contreras, middle, and Mahanoy junior Derek Alvarado, right, listen to Schuylkill Chamber of Commerce Member Relations and Marketing Director Tony Merchlinsky during the Schuylkill County Career Fair at Martz Hall in Pottsville, Thursday, April 10, 2025. (MATTHEW PERSCHALL/MULTIMEDIA EDITOR) Minersville junior Lorelei Yerusavage, left, and Alexandra Arnold, right, speak with Reading Area Community College Admissions Counselor Benjamin Dunst during the Schuylkill County Career Fair at Martz Hall in Pottsville, Thursday, April 10, 2025. (MATTHEW PERSCHALL/MULTIMEDIA EDITOR) Pottsville juniors William Davis, back, Tyler Sibbett, front, and Cole Hoak, left, speak with William Flynn and Gabriela Torres of TE Connectivity during the Schuylkill County Career Fair at Martz Hall in Pottsville, Thursday, April 10, 2025. (MATTHEW PERSCHALL/MULTIMEDIA EDITOR) Show Caption 1 of 5 Students venture around the court of Martz Hall talking to various businesses, universities and organizations at the Schuylkill County Career Fair in Pottsville, Thursday, April 10, 2025. (MATTHEW PERSCHALL/MULTIMEDIA EDITOR) Michu Dixie, a Pottsville Area senior who plans to study civil engineering, said she appreciated the wealth of electrical engineering and other relevant career paths presented at the fair. Though she hasn’t decided which college she will attend, Dixie said she’ll consider job shadowing and internship opportunities. Some students, like Minersville Area’s Erica Osborne, were unsure if they wanted to head into higher education. Osborne, a senior, has considered pursuing theater or music therapy as a career, but she happily interacted with employers unrelated to those fields, like the Hayden Power Group, an electrical company. Kelly Hansbury, workforce planning project manager at EMD Electronics, said that her company saw a great reception from students Thursday. The Hometown-based company, owned by Merck, is the world’s largest manufacturer of integrated specialty gases and one of Schuylkill County’s “best-kept secrets,” Hansbury said. The facility boasts a wide range of career opportunities at every level, she said. “We’re telling them about how exciting working in the specialty gases industry can and will be,” she said. “The students have been very highly engaged.” Susan Williams, LionLaunch coordinator at Penn State Schuylkill, touted the campus’s co-op program as one of its unique offerings. She said the university, overall, was highly popular with students Thursday — perhaps due to uncertainty over its future, given it’s one of 12 branch campuses that could potentially close after the 2026-27 school year. Williams said the career fair is a good way for students to build soft skills and practice professionalism “Even if they’re not ready to go to college, it is an amazing networking opportunity for students,” she said. Darlene J. Robbins, president of the Northeast PA MAEA council, emphasized the importance of the event. “This career fair is a powerful example of what happens when education, business and community come together with purpose,” she said. “It gives students a real-world view of the many opportunities that exist right here in our region and helps lay the foundation for a stronger, more prepared workforce.” Share this: