This simple laptop accessory is my secret weapon against desk clutter (and it's on sale) | ZDNET X Tech Why you can trust ZDNET : ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. 'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing. When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews. Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers. ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via . This simple laptop accessory is my secret weapon against desk clutter (and it's on sale) Belkin's Connect Universal Pro Dock enhances your laptop's capabilities and overall experience while keeping things tidy and clean. Written by April 10, 2025 at 1:24 p.m. PT Reviewed by ZDNET's key takeaways The Belkin Connect Universal Pro Dock retails for $150, but right now it's on sale for $130. This midrange docking station is an excellent accessory, adding 11 additional ports while serving as a supportive base. The device sports a power cable that cannot be removed and may get in the way. more buying choices Laptop or desktop? I'm sure many people ask themselves this question when shopping for a new computer. Laptops are obviously more mobile and better suited for users on the go. Desktops, on the other hand, enable a much richer PC ecosystem. But you don't have to agonize over this question - I found a device that gives you the best of both worlds. Also: Lately, I've been enjoying using the as part of my day-to-day workflow. It's a docking station for your laptop that gives you a bunch of extra ports, but it also provides a desktop-like experience. I highly recommend it to anyone looking to upgrade their laptop's usability, but can't afford a whole new desktop. Here's how it works. details A wide range of support As its name suggests, the dock houses 11 individual ports across multiple standards. To highlight a few options, it has two 3.2 USB-A inputs, two Thunderbolt ports, a MicroSD slot for memory cards, and a pair of HDMI outputs. Some of the double ports have different properties. For example, one Thunderbolt port provides power delivery up to 100W, while the other enables data transfer speeds up to 10Gbps. You can tell which is which by looking at the gray text underneath the input. Also: Although charging your laptop through the 100W port is possible, recharge times will be slightly slower than when you directly plug the power adapter into the computer. That's because the dock takes a little bit of energy for itself. When charging through the Belkin dock, it took my Lenovo ThinkPad P14s an hour and 15 minutes to go from zero to 85% battery. A direct connection shortened that time to an hour and three minutes. To test transfer speeds, I moved a 20GB movie and a big 80GB file from my laptop to my main PC to test transfer speeds. The first transfer took about 30 seconds to complete, while the second took a little over two minutes. Those are impressively fast speeds from the Universal Pro Dock. Expect similar time frames in your personal use cases. Before I forget, I must also highlight one of the dock's shining features: the ability to extend a laptop's screen to three different displays simultaneously. It supports a maximum resolution of 4K at 60Hz for one monitor. Multiple 4K displays can run at the same time, although the frame rate drops to 30Hz. Support for higher image qualities would've been nice, but for a low-cost docking station, it's not half bad. Keeping things cool What's particularly interesting about this docking station is that it can help cool down laptops. That may sound strange at first. It looks nothing like a normal , as those devices house large fans. As it turns out, you don't need a fan to refresh devices. Simply elevating your computer to maximize airflow is often enough to lower internal temperatures, and that's exactly what the Belkin docking station enables. Also: The top of the unit slants downward with rubber pads above and below it to prevent slipping. Just placing your laptop on the pads is enough to cool it down, which is what I experienced during testing. Additionally, the elevation improves ergonomics. Typing at an angle is easier on your hands, reducing the likelihood of wrist strain and potential injury. One potential downside is the Pro Dock's power cable is permanently affixed is the back of the device. Fortunately, it's long enough to reach the side ports on most laptops. I could insert its USB-C plug into both my 14-inch ThinkPad and my bulky 17-inch Alienware gaming laptop without issue. That said, if your laptop is too big or its ports are not in an ideal location, the cable may not reach. ZDNET's buying advice retails for $150, but at the time of this writing, it's on sale for . At that price, I highly suggest laptop owners looking to level up their workspace to buy it. It's a handy accessory that can significantly enhance your user experience -- like having a desktop minus the bulky tower. Because it is a low-cost product, this docking station doesn't have many extra features. If you're looking for a more premium option, I suggest checking out the -- but only if money is no issue. It has 18 ports, supports 8K displays, and works with MacBooks, but runs closer to $400. What are the tariffs in the US? The recent on imports from countries like China, Vietnam, and India aim to boost domestic manufacturing but are likely to drive up prices on consumer electronics. Products like smartphones, laptops, and TVs may become more expensive as companies rethink global supply chains and weigh the cost of shifting production. Also: Laptops and PCs are also hit hard by the new U.S. tariffs, with import duties potentially increasing prices by up to 35%. Many major brands still rely on Chinese and Vietnamese factories for assembly, meaning consumers could soon pay significantly more for everything from budget Chromebooks to high-end gaming rigs. These tariffs may accelerate efforts to move production to regions like Mexico or India, but shoppers can expect higher costs and fewer discounts in the short term. Featured reviews Show Comments Related