Democratic senators call for insider trading investigation after Trump announces 90-day tariff pause After the stock market soared following Trump's announcement of a 90-day pause on almost all tariffs on Wednesday, two Democratic senators are calling for an investigation into possible insider trading Two Democratic senators, including Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), sent a letter demanding a White House investigation into insider trading ( Image: Getty Images) By US News Reporter 18:26, 10 Apr 2025 Two Democratic senators are calling for an investigation into of insider trading at the White House amid President 's 90-day pause on on Wednesday, which sent the stock market soaring. Sens. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) and Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.) sent a letter to Trump's chief of staff, Susie Wiles, and Trade Representative Jamieson Greer on Thursday asking them to investigate potential conflicts of interest over the . "I'm going to do my best to find out," Schiff told . "Family meme coins and all the rest of it are not beyond insider trading or enriching themselves. I hope to find out soon." Trump announced the 90-day tariff pause on Wednesday, sending the stock market soaring ( Image: AFP via Getty Images) Just hours before Trump announced the rollback of the tariffs to just 10% for every country except China, Canada and Mexico, Trump posted on Truth Social: "BE COOL! Everything is going to work out well. The USA will be bigger and better than ever before!" and "THIS IS A GREAT TIME TO BUY!!! DJT." Those messages have many fearing that Trump set up his allies for insider trading and that he allowed them to piggyback off of his plan to slash tariffs — which ultimately sent the stock market soaring. The Nasdaq was up by 12.1% at the close of markets on Wednesday, which was the index's largest single-day gain since 2021. The Dow, meanwhile, was up 7.8%, marking its biggest one-day increase in five years. On Wednesday morning, stocks had been down ahead of Trump's announcement. Click to follow the Mirror US on Google News to stay up to date with all the latest news, sports and entertainment stories. Trump posted a cryptic message on his Truth Social on Wednesday ( Image: realDonaldTrump/Truth Social) "This sequence of events raises grave legal and ethics concerns. The President, his family, and his advisors are uniquely positioned to be privy to and take advantage of non-public information to inform their investment decisions," the senators said in the letter. The senators asked the Office of Government Ethics to launch a probe into whether any White House or executive branch officials, including special government employees, were informed of the announcement in advance and to cross-reference that list with anyone who made financial transactions with knowledge of the nonpublic information. Schiff and Gallego want answers to several questions about Wednesday's chain of events, including whether any of Trump's family members were privy to the information or informed of the deliberations before Trump's 90-day tariff pause announcement. Sign up to our FREE newsletter and get the top stories to your inbox DAILY NEWSLETTER: to get the latest news and updates from the Mirror US straight to your inbox with our FREE newsletter. Sen. Gallego cosigned the letter, which he and Schiff sent to Susie Wiles and Jamieson Greer ( Image: AP) They also want to know whether there's any record of communications with executive branch officials, family members or special government employees. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent and White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt told reporters on Wednesday during a media standup outside the White House that the president's decision was part of his plan all along. "This was driven by the president's strategy. He and I had a long talk on Sunday, and this was his strategy all along," Bessent told reporters. "You might even say that he goaded China into a bad position. They responded. They have shown themselves to the world to be the bad actors. And, we are willing to cooperate with our allies and with our trading partners who did not retaliate." In his Truth Social post, Trump stated that 75 countries had called to negotiate the tariffs against them and said that, because of them and their good-faith, low-retaliatory efforts, he decided to implement the 90-day pause on all tariffs. Trump, however, said he made his decision on Wednesday morning, not ahead of time. "I think it probably came together early this morning, fairly early this morning. Just wrote it up. I didn't — we didn't have the use of, we didn't have access to lawyers, or it was just brought up. We wrote it up from our hearts," the president told reporters. The White House has yet to release a statement on the claims of insider trading raised by the Democratic senators. Click to follow the Mirror US on Google News to stay up to date with all the latest news, sports and entertainment stories. Top Stories Don't Miss Follow The Mirror US MORE ON Story Saved You can find this story in Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.