Flaggs announces formation of Homeless Solutions Task Force - The Vicksburg Post | The Vicksburg Post Flaggs announces formation of Homeless Solutions Task Force Published 12:07 pm Thursday, April 10, 2025 By A campsite set up along Highway 61 South in front of the Vicksburg Walmart location earlier this year is one example of areas Mayor George Flaggs Jr. says will be addressed by the city's new Homeless Solutions Task Force. (File photo/The Vicksburg Post) During Monday’s meeting of the Vicksburg Board of Mayor and Aldermen, Mayor George Flaggs Jr. announced the formation of the Vicksburg Homeless Solutions Task Force, calling it a coordinated, city-led initiative to assess and address homelessness within the community. “Homelessness is a real issue here in Vicksburg, and it’s one we must approach with both compassion and a clear plan of action,” Flaggs said. “We’ve seen an increase in individuals experiencing homelessness in key areas like the outlet mall, Walmart and along Washington Street. This task force will help us better understand the issue, identify solutions and take meaningful steps toward improving the lives of those affected.” Flaggs said the newly formed task force will focus on four primary areas, including: evaluating the current state of homelessness in Vicksburg; identifying a building the city could lease to provide temporary shelter and resources; developing strategies to address homelessness in specific hotspot areas; recommending realistic, sustainable solutions in time for the city’s annual budget hearings in August. Email newsletter signup Sign up for The Vicksburg Post's free newsletters Check which newsletters you would like to receive Vicksburg News : Sent daily at 5 am Vicksburg Sports : Sent daily at 10 am Vicksburg Living : Sent on 15th of each month The task force will be chaired by Vicksburg Chief of Police Penny Jones, with Vicksburg Police Department Training and Media Coordinator Mike Bryant serving as co-chair. Additional members include: Director of Finance and Accounting Doug Whittington; Director of Community Development Jeff Richardson; Human Resources Director Carla Sullivan; Grants Administrator Nancy Allen; and City Attorney Lee Davis Thames Jr. Flaggs said the task force will begin meeting immediately in order to develop a comprehensive approach reflecting the city’s values of safety, dignity and opportunity for all. “Vicksburg is a city that cares,” Flaggs said. “By bringing the right people to the table, we can create real solutions that not only support our homeless population, but also improve the overall wellbeing of our community.” For more information on the task force, Flaggs may be contacted directly at 601-942-0492. Featured Local Savings More News Sports Plus Two games on the Monday college basketball schedule feature a ranked team, including the matchup between the Wake… The Tampa Bay Lightning versus the Florida Panthers is one of many solid options on today’s NHL slate.… The Southern Jaguars versus the Florida A&M Rattlers is one of many compelling options on Monday in SWAC… Ranked squads will be on Monday’s college basketball schedule in two games, including the Kansas Jayhawks taking on… The McNeese Cowboys and Stephen F. Austin Lumberjacks square off in one of many compelling matchups on the… Polls Are you concerned about the Mississippi River exceeding flood stage? Yes No Loading ... Mississippi River level at Vicksburg Calendar Sections Services Copyright © 2025, The Vicksburg Post