Jarrid Houston column: Get ready for smelt run - Duluth News Tribune | News, weather, and sports from Duluth, Minnesota Sections Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Jarrid Houston column: Get ready for smelt run Next week should be busy with many boat launches open and ready for traffic. By April 10, 2025 at 12:00 PM Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project The countdown continues for the coming of the next regular sportfishing season. After burying away all the ice fishing equipment last weekend, it was exciting to bust out the open-water stuff. However, I also realized I need to get "re-uploaded" on many things, and fishing line is one of them. This year, I am going to try out a new line called FINS Windtamer. I am no stranger to fishing all sorts of fishing lines, but I have always appreciated the newly scientifically engineered world of braid line fishing. More to come on that, but for now, time to restring up some reels. ADVERTISEMENT OK, let's dive into this week's update: Lake Superior has had a little bit of a slowdown this last week, mostly on account of the up-and-down weather patterns and stiff winds. It hasn't completely shut off; it has just seen a lot less boat than we we saw a couple weeks ago. The bite remains OK on the milder days when the lake can safely accommodate some trollers. From 1990-2020, most counties in the region saw a double-digit percentage increase in home units where vegetation and development mingle, increasing the risk of property damage. 6d ago · By Next week should be busy with many boat launches open and ready for traffic. Weekdays will be less busy, but make no mistake, even on a Tuesday afternoon, dozens of trucks and trailers will be parked at the popular boat launches. The routine should still be to concentrate on the shallow roaming coho salmon with long-lining stick baits. This time of year, fish can be caught anywhere from 25 to 175 feet of water (I prefer the shallower stuff). The best bait colors will continue to be the natural chrome colors or bright blues, oranges and pinks. Now that we are entering mid-April, the will start to heat up in our area of the world. We have already heard whispers of a few early hits east of the Chequamegon Bay areas. So, if you are into the annual smelt run, I would start to get ready for that. Stream angling has been tough going on account of the muddy faster waters. A few fish are turning up, but for the most part, fishing conditions have been challenging. I predict things will be better this next week with the warmer temperatures and calmer skies. Floating indicators over an assortment of flies will continue to be best. Most fish can be caught in pocket holes in and around river corners or any type of lumber and rock structures. ADVERTISEMENT The St. Louis River has not seen any boat traffic except for the couple rigs launched off Rice's Point and ran out to the Duluth entry. Most of the river is now pure open water except for some deep pockets in the back bays protected from current and with tall shady trees. Conditions look to be muddy, but things should clear up as we move further into April. No treatment or vaccine is available for the potentially fatal illness. 6d ago · By Seth Roeser / For the News Tribune We expect to be running and gunning early spot panfish these next couple weeks. Other regional rivers have been offering some great "legal" walleye opportunities. Rainy River has had a good bite this spring for big roaming fish. With that said, time is almost over for that particular bite, though. The Fox River near Green Bay and the up-coastal spots of Oconto and Peshtigo have been heating up. These areas will only get better as we get further into the spring run. Inland lakes have been opening daily. Most area waters 40 miles to the south of us are either open or are getting closer. We have not heard of any angling in the Northland inland waters, but to the south, some are getting out. Near the metro, many anglers are now chasing crappies and sunfish. Closer to home, we have a way to go. This last weekend, we took to some select boat launches around Douglas County and picked up some litter (something we do often). As anglers, we should always carry some trash bags in our vehicles or boats to help keep our waters clean. Share Share this article Opinion Opinion Advocates for ideas and draws conclusions based on the interpretation of facts and data. The Trust Project Tags Tags WISCONSIN By Jarrid Houston of South Range is a fishing guide ( houstonsguideservice.com ) on Minnesota and Wisconsin inland waters, the St. Louis River and, in winter, on Lake Superior. Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next 12h ago · By 14h ago · By 17h ago · By Get Local ADVERTISEMENT Must Reads 12m ago · By 3h ago · By 6h ago · By 12h ago · By