Lawmakers and EMS leaders advocate for EMS prioritization in tight budget year - InForum | Fargo, Moorhead and West Fargo news, weather and sports Sections Sponsored By Sponsored By An organization or individual has paid for the creation of this work but did not approve or review it. ADVERTISEMENT ADVERTISEMENT Lawmakers and EMS leaders advocate for EMS prioritization in tight budget year EMS leaders say providers are “Not sure how they’re going to keep afloat” while pushes for increased reimbursement rates and additional one-time funding persist By Today at 11:54 AM Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project ST. PAUL — Minnesota lawmakers and EMS leaders said Tuesday that the state should safeguard funding for EMS, which advocates called a system in a “cycle of crisis.” During a Tuesday morning, April 8, press conference, Rep. Jeff Backer, R-Browns Valley, Sen. Grant Hauschild, DFL-Hermantown, and EMS personnel from across the state urged passage of bills for $50 million in short-term funding, long-term changes to reimbursement rates and boosted training programs to support EMS. ADVERTISEMENT Bills and increase reimbursement rates by providing a 10% increase in Medicaid payment rates for ambulance services. Together, the bills would cost $1.3 billion in 2026 and 3.3 billion in 2027, paid out of the state’s general fund, according to the bill’s fiscal note. Michael Juntunen, president of the Minnesota Ambulance Association, said on Tuesday that Medicaid and Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services currently pay the most in reimbursement rates in Minnesota and that potential federal cuts could be “devastating.” “If there are cuts to the Medicare or Medicaid programs, even by a percentage or two, it’s devastating to our ambulance services,” he said. “I mean, it’s millions and millions of dollars for a lot of services.” In the 2024 session, the Minnesota Legislature in EMS — $24 million in local service provider grants and $6 million to pilot a sprint medic program. Juntunen said on Tuesday that , MAA is asking for $50 million in one-time grants this year for local services. “We know that’s a hard ask this year,” he said. “I mean, we totally understand that dollars are a struggle. But again, we have ambulance services that are not sure how they’re going to keep afloat.” Rebecca Huebsch, director of Perham Area EMS, said at the press conference on Tuesday that Perham’s EMS service received a $192,000 grant from the state and was able to restore an old ambulance, but that their EMS needs last year were closer to $500,000. “It made a huge impact in our budget, but the one-time funding fell short for even that year,” she said. “So we appreciate everything that we’ve gotten, but we need more help.” ADVERTISEMENT Huebsch also addressed the $6 million sprint medic program passed in 2024, and said it’s too early to assess its success since it just launched in Perham a week and a half ago. The Medicaid reimbursement rate bills have not yet received a hearing. EMS advocates on Tuesday said they are also pushing for the passage of / , which would a salary while they undergo training. Backer said on Tuesday that he and fellow House Health and Finance Policy committee co-chair Robert Bierman, DFL-Apple Valley, are hoping to include some of the EMS provisions in the committee’s omnibus bill, which is still in negotiation. More from Mary Murphy Omar is the second of Minnesota’s congressional delegation to officially announce their reelection campaign for 2026 after Rep. Michelle Fischbach announced on March 17 her intentions to run again. 12h ago · By Blaha’s endorsement marks Flanagan’s second from an elected statewide officer, with some statewide officers like Sen. Tina Smith and Gov. Tim Walz opting not to endorse. 12h ago · By Catch up on some of the other business that took place this week at the Minnesota Capitol 6d ago · By Share Share this article News Reporting News Reporting Based on facts, either observed and verified firsthand by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. The Trust Project Tags Tags HEALTHCARE By Mary Murphy joined Forum Communications in October 2024 as the Minnesota State Correspondent. She can be reached by email at mmurphy@forumcomm.com. Conversation ADVERTISEMENT What To Read Next 1d ago · By 1d ago · By 2d ago · By Get Local ADVERTISEMENT 8h ago · By 9h ago · By Subscribers Only 13h ago · By 1d ago · By