1 of 2 Oschrin Signs calling on Charlottesville City Council to make Fifth Street safer hang on a tree as cars drive up and down Fifth Street Extension on Friday, Jan. 14, 2022. ERIN EDGERTON, THE DAILY PROGRESS Copy article link HAWES SPENCER The Daily Progress CITY HALL The city of Charlottesville has unveiled a plan to remove a traffic lane from Fifth Street Southwest, the crash-prone, fourlane highway that connects Downtown to Interstate 64. The planned "road diet" would convert 1 mile of the right side of the southbound roadway into a protected dual-direction bikeway. The plan has won the favor of Charlottesville City Councilor Natalie Oschrin, an advocate of urbanism. She said that several fatal crashes along Fifth Street Southwest pushed the project forward. "The data supports the idea that when you narrow roads, people will drive more safely," Oschrin told The Daily Progress. "So we can design our way into safety." Released last Thursday, the plan shows the bikeway stretching from Cherry Avenue out to Willoughby Square Shopping Center. The shopping center is anchored by a Food Lion grocery store facing an intersection with Brent Creek Road, the connector the leads into the neighboring 5th Street Station shopping center, home to a Wegmans grocery store, Alamo Drafthouse and more. People are also reading… While Fifth Street Southwest already has bike lanes, they consist solely of a white stripe of paint on pavement. "Paint is not protection," said Oschrin. "And as anyone who's ever biked along that stretch will tell you, it's not the most comfortable place to be because cars are going by quickly." Fifth Street's design as a highway stemmed from a now-derided 1959 city plan by Atlanta-based Harland Bartholomew and Associates that recommended "radial routes" to benefit suburban commuters at the expense of city neighborhoods. "Expected 1980 traffic will require four moving lanes between Main Street and Cherry Avenue," wrote Bartholomew. "Fifth Street south to Cleveland Avenue should be widened to 80 feet." Carrying out that plan in 1973, the city demolished several houses as planners carved Fifth Street through the historically Black Ridge Street neighborhood. Today, no fewer than four median trees have become makeshift memorials after a spate of fatal crashes. Fifth Street's death toll includes the 2016 death of a popular music teacher named Eric Betthauser, killed by a drunk driver traveling 94 mph, as well as a man named Quintus Brooks who died in a 2018 wreck. In 2020, Rahmean Rose, 23, was killed in a motorcycle collision, and Dustin Parr, 30, was killed in a reckless driving crash. Later that year, Devin Stinnie, 28, and Rashod Walton, 23, were killed in a drunken car crash caused by Stinnie's twin brother. After a Richmond woman, 35-year-old Jamie Reibsome, was killed in a 2022 collision between two sport utility vehicles, the city lowered Fifth Street's speed limit from 45 to 40 mph. But the wideness and straightness continues. "It is a corridor where we have seen tragedies," said Oschrin. "It's basically a straight line; it's easy to speed down." At least one man currently stands charged with street racing on Fifth Street, Christopher Richard Cook, a resident of Kents Store. Charged for an alleged Dec. 7 incident while driving an Audi near the Albemarle County police station, the 40-year-old Cook has a hearing slated for April 28. As for the planned road diet, Charlottesville transportation officials have set an open house for 5:30 to 7 p.m. Wednesday in the gymnasium of Jackson-Via Elementary School. There and in an online survey that will take comments through the end of the month, the public can offer opinions. While a city statement implies that while the road diet itself will not be deterred, the final design of several intersections that would be altered by the bikeway remains unset. "Your feedback," reads the city statement, "will help determine the shape of the bikeway at several key locations, including the Cherry Avenue/Elliott Avenue intersection, Harris Road, and Cleveland Road." Pumping gas into an SUV at the Exxon on Fifth Street Monday afternoon, Charlottesville resident Ampy Smith said he likes the idea of protected bike lanes but suggests that slimming the road could actually worsen traffic. "And I worry about emergency vehicles, because a lot of times when there is a traffic jam they have a really difficult time navigating through traffic," Smith told The Daily Progress. "So if anything, for Fifth Street, I would think they might want to make it a little wider, not narrower, perhaps to put those bike lanes in." The project traces its roots to the city's "Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan," which in 2015 recommended protected bike lanes on the road south of Cherry Avenue. The materials that will protect cyclists from errant motor vehicles have not yet been decided, said Oschrin, but according to the city statement, the initial plan is to use low-cost materials to allow the project to happen quickly this summer. Two years ago, the Virginia Department of Transportation announced a separate plan just south of the planned Fifth Street project to create an $11.3 million trail network of shared-used paths linking the busy road to 5th Street Station and to Bent Creek Parkway — with the potential to connect to nearby Biscuit Run Park. Right-of-way acquisition and utility relocation for what's called the 5th Street Station Trail and Hub project has already begun with that project slated for advertisement this fall and completion in 2027. The new transportation options convince Oschrin that the projects will combine for a safer community. "The benefit of doing this project is that you get safety," said Oschrin, "increased safety for bikers and pedestrians, but also for cars, because they're going to naturally feel inclined to go slower." Hawes Spencer (434) 960-9343 @HawesSpencer on X Be the first to know Get local news delivered to your inbox! Sign up! * I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and . Related to this story Most Popular Virginia Gov. Glenn Youngkin tried to amend an education bill, adding language about gender identity that Democrats say had "nothing to do wit… A onetime Charlottesville restaurateur, with a track record of traffic offenses, has settled a civil suit brought against him by a UVa student… Zara's Chance, a nonprofit Greene County animal rescue, is accused of neglecting animals, employing a child sex offender and misleading the au… New Virginia basketball coach Ryan Odom announced on Tuesday he is bringing back two longtime staff members of the Cavaliers. Susan and Geoffrey Rieser, a prominent Shenandoah Valley couple, are accused of stealing a $5,000 mink coat during a wedding at the Farmington…