Wall Street Braces For High-Stakes Friday With Bank Earnings, Inflation Data, Consumer Sentiment In Focus - BlackRock (NYSE:BLK), Bank of New York Mellon (NYSE:BK) - Benzinga My Account Login Login Register Trade Ideas Best Stocks & ETFs Trade Ideas Best Stocks & ETFs Calendars Trade Ideas Short Interest Calculators Screeners Recent Markets April 10, 2025 4:31 PM 3 min read Wall Street Braces For High-Stakes Friday With Bank Earnings, Inflation Data, Consumer Sentiment In Focus by Benzinga Staff Writer Follow Zinger Key Points Wall Street braces for a packed Friday as earnings, inflation data, and sentiment figures converge after a volatile trading week. Producer inflation and consumer expectations could sway Fed policy as inflationary pressures remain front and center. Add Comment | 1 Stock Score Locked: Want to See it? Benzinga Rankings give you vital metrics on any stock – anytime. Edge Rankings Momentum 91.22 Growth 55.17 Quality 53.00 Value - Price Trend Short Medium Long Comments Close menu Loading... Zinger Key Points Wall Street braces for a packed Friday as earnings, inflation data, and sentiment figures converge after a volatile trading week. Producer inflation and consumer expectations could sway Fed policy as inflationary pressures remain front and center. As Wall Street wraps up one of its wildest weeks in recent memory, all eyes are locked on Friday, a session poised to unleash a wave After Thursday's brutal sell-off in risk assets, investors are gearing up for a showdown featuring big bank earnings, fresh inflation data, and a critical read on consumer sentiment. The S&P 500, tracked via the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust SPY , is clinging to a 2.8% weekly gain, eyeing its strongest performance of 2025. That includes Wednesday's historic 9.5% surge, the index's largest one-day leap since the 2008 financial crisis. Big Banks Kick Off Q1 Earnings Season Some of the country's biggest financial institutions will kick off the first-quarter earnings season. JPMorgan Chase & Co. JPM , Morgan Stanley MS , BlackRock Inc. BLK , Wells Fargo & Co. WFC , and Bank of New York Mellon BK are all slated to report earnings before the market opens Friday. Here's what the median Wall Street analyst is expecting, according to : Earnings beats or misses will surely drive immediate action, but investors are zooming in on forward guidance, particularly commentary around how tariffs and uncertainty could affect credit conditions, loan growth, and capital markets. "Mounting uncertainty from the economic impact of tariffs could result in slower loan growth, a flatter curve, weaker capital markets, and a deterioration in credit quality," said Richard Ramsden, senior analyst at Goldman Sachs, in a recent note. Producer Prices, Consumer Inflation Expectations Take Center Stage In Fed Debate On Friday at 8:30 a.m. ET, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will release the March Producer Price Index (PPI)—a key gauge of wholesale inflation and an increasingly critical signal for the Fed's rate path. Consensus forecasts see headline PPI rising 3.3% year-over-year, slightly hotter than February's 3.2%. On a monthly basis, prices are expected to bounce by 0.2% after a flat February reading. More crucially, core PPI (excluding food and energy) is projected to climb 3.6% annually, up from 3.4%, with a monthly rebound of 0.3% after a 0.1% dip the prior month. Hotter-than-expected readings could raise alarms that U.S. producers are already pricing in the inflationary effects of tariffs, fueling concerns at the Fed about a future pass-through of those costs to consumers. At 10:00 a.m. ET, attention shifts to Main Street, as the University of Michigan's preliminary April consumer sentiment survey provides a timely snapshot of how everyday Americans are feeling in the face of growing economic uncertainty. Economists anticipate a dip in the sentiment index to 54.5 from March's 57, marking the weakest read since July 2022. But the inflation expectation components will be under the spotlight. Last month, year-ahead inflation expectations shot up to 5%, the highest since mid-2022. Any further acceleration could force the Fed to reconsider its path toward policy easing. Read Next: Photo: Shutterstock Stock Score Locked: Want to See it? Benzinga Rankings give you vital metrics on any stock – anytime. Edge Rankings Momentum 91.22 Growth 55.17 Quality 53.00 Value - Price Trend Short Medium Long Got Questions? Ask Which bank stocks are primed for earnings beats? How will tariffs impact credit growth ? Which financial institutions could face loan growth slowdowns? What sectors are most vulnerable to inflation data ? Can consumer sentiment revive retail stocks ? Will JP Morgan outperform its peers in Q1? How might BlackRock respond to market volatility ? Which ETFs could benefit from inflation concerns ? Is there a buying opportunity in bank stocks post-earnings? How could a dip in consumer sentiment affect market sectors ? Powered By © 2025 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved. Posted In: Benzinga simplifies the market for smarter investing Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about. Already a member? Popular Channels Tools & Features Partners & Contributors About Benzinga © 2025 Benzinga | All Rights Reserved