Copy article link The state of Colorado has settled a lawsuit against two Colorado Parks and Wildlife commissioners who violated the state's open meetings law by drafting an opinion piece last year in support of a state ballot measure. The state was sued last December in Denver District Court by the Sportsmen's Alliance Foundation and Safari Club International when two current commissioners and a former commissioner penned an opinion piece that ran in the last October, weeks before voters were to decide on a ballot measure that would ban "trophy hunting" of mountain lions, bobcats and lynx. State law prohibits trophy hunting, but Lynx is a protected species. Voters soundly rejected Amendment 27, one of three ballot measures promoted by animal rights groups that were all defeated last November. The other two were in Denver and sought to ban fur sales and close the city's only meat-processing facility. The current commissioners, dubbed "anti-hunting" by the alliance, are Jack Murphy and Jessica Beaulieu, confirmed by the state Senate last year despite an unfavorable recommendation by the Senate Agriculture and Natural Resources Committee. Beaulieu, who was selected to represent the state's 42 state parks and outdoor recreation, admitted she hadn't visited any outside of the Denver metro area and had never purchased a state park pass. At the time, Sen. Dylan Roberts, D-Frisco, in an interview with questioned whether Beaulieu and another commissioner, who later withdrew his nomination, had been asked to apply "because they fit a certain ideology rather than being genuinely interested in serving...It's curious that someone who has never owned a parks pass and never visited any parks other than those close to Denver would have a passion for state parks usage.” The former commissioner who also helped write the opinion piece was James Pribyl, who has a history of violating the state's open meetings law while on the commission. John Howard, former CPW commissioner who served from 2014 to 2020, told Colorado Politics after the opinion piece was published, "We had a major problem with this before I went on the commission, but commissioners cannot talk to each other except about social matters, like having dinner or something," he said. "They can't talk about issues like this except in a hearing after proper notice has been given to the public. So, there's no question in my mind that the two serving commissioners have violated that law." Howard added that there's "no way to write a joint op-ed without some email traffic and phone calls" without violating the Colorado Open Meetings Law. "This has been a terrible problem for the commission in the past, and oddly enough, the offending party was Jim Pribyl," Howard said. He pointed to a against the CPW commission — then known as the Colorado Board of Parks and Outdoor Recreation — stemming from Pribyl's communications with other commissioners outside of public hearings. The case went to the Colorado Court of Appeals, leading the CPW commission to confess the violation and redo the meeting, thereby "curing" the violation. Given his history with the Open Meetings Law, Howard said Pribyl should know better. "You would think he would be able to advise these new commissioners," Howard said. "I just think it's a shame that Pribyl has led these folks" into violating the open meetings law. Sign up for free: News Alerts Stay in the know on the stories that affect you the most. Sign Up For Free Success! Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter. The lawsuit was brought because CPW commissioners are prohibited by the state's open meetings law from discussing matters outside of public meetings, particularly on matters the commission is working on. At the time, the commission was working on a mountain lion plan for the Eastern Slope, which was adopted just a month after the opinion piece was published. Commissioners had also been warned a week before the opinion piece was published about not engaging in discussions about commission business outside of public meetings. In a discussion about wolves, CPW Commission Chair Dallas May said, "I think it's relevant to point out the fact that especially members of the public (should) realize, we as commissioners never converse about this. We don't discuss this. The time you see us on the open mics, that's the discussion time commissioners have." "CPW made the correct decision to settle instead of dragging this out and wasting time and resources," the alliance said. The alliance said the opinion piece was also riddled with errors about state hunting regulations. According to the statement, the commissioners claimed that hunters could use drones, which the commission’s regulations prohibit. They contended that mountain lion hunts guarantee “success at 100%” when the success rate is closer to 20%. The statement falsely claimed that wild cats are “not involved in any human conflict,” when the Colorado Parks and Wildlife website has numerous , including a 2023 attack by a mountain lion on a young girl in Greeley. "The irony is that all these false statements were made while simultaneously declaring that commissioners 'are held to a higher standard … of science, not mere opinion and conjecture,'" the statement added. “We filed this suit to hold the commissioners accountable for violating the open-meeting law and making blatantly false statements about state hunting regulations in a failed attempt to persuade voters,” said Michael Jean, litigation counsel for Sportsmen’s Alliance Foundation. “This settlement does that. And the commissioners will have no excuses for future violations.” The statement said the settlement requires the commission to receive training on the “requirements and best practices, including … current [open meeting law] case law regarding serial communications, often referred to as ‘daisy chains.’” In addition, because the opinion piece contained so many factual errors, the alliance said commissioners will receive “training … on current Colorado law governing the take of mountain lion, bobcat, and lynx.” The state also pays a portion of the attorney's fees. The Department of Natural Resources has not yet responded to a request for comment. Marissa Ventrelli contributed to this report. Copy article link Chief legislative reporter