Stock futures fall as major averages resume their slide, fueled by tariff anxiety: Live updates By Pia Singh, CNBC • Published April 10, 2025 • Updated 3 hours ago BOOKMARKER Stock futures fell on Thursday night as investors look to close out a volatile week, punctuated by sharp swings for the major averages. slipped 0.8%, while lost 0.9%. dropped 277 points, or 0.7%. Watch NBC 5 free wherever you are remain at the forefront of investors' minds after President Donald Trump temporarily slashed his country-specific duties to a universal rate of 10% — except for China. Goods from Beijing will see a rate of 145%, a White House official confirmed to CNBC. The fell 3.46% on Thursday, while the 30-stock tumbled 1,014.79 points, or 2.5%. The tech-heavy ended the day lower by 4.31%. Get top local stories in DFW delivered to you every morning with NBC DFW's News Headlines newsletter. Thursday's declines wiped a chunk of the gains the major averages saw on Wednesday after Trump announced a 90-day reprieve on some of his high "reciprocal" tariffs. On Wednesday, the S&P 500 surged 9.52% for its since World War II and the 30-stock Dow skyrocketed more than 2,900 points. Stocks resumed their losing ways on Thursday as traders went into risk-off mode, with trade policy uncertainty weighing on sentiment. The "lower tariff level is still a huge problem, and deadlines three months out offer no certainty for consumers, business, and investors," said Jed Ellerbroek, portfolio manager at Argent Capital Management. "This set of policies will leave the U.S. with higher inflation, lower economic growth, and a frustrated stock market." Here are the tariffs currently in place: 145% duty on all goods from China 25% tariffs targeting aluminum, autos and goods from Canada and Mexico not under the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement 10% levy on all other imports Despite the tumultuous week, the three major averages are on pace for solid gains in the period. The S&P 500 is on pace for a 3.8% advance, its best weekly performance since November. The Nasdaq is on track to gain 5.1%. The Dow is on pace for a 3.3% jump week to date. Money Report 1 hour ago 1 hour ago Investors are now turning to a slew of earnings out Friday from the nation's largest banks and financial companies, which will kick off first-quarter earnings season and offer clues about the state of the U.S. economy. , , and are a few names set to report their financial results. On the economic front, the March producer price index report and the preliminary University of Michigan consumer sentiment data for April will be released Friday. U.S. 10-year Treasury yields rise as Trump tariffs-led sell-off continues The yield climbed 6 basis points to 4.456% Friday Asia hours, as the sell-off in U.S. debt resumed. Treasurys have seen a sharp sell-off this week, triggered by U.S. President Donald Trump's tariff policies, forcing the administration to rethink its strategy and pause new tariffs on most countries. The tariff reprieve helped drive a rally in stocks and halted the rise in yields, but the impact has since waned with both the slide in stocks and Treasurys resuming. — Lee Ying Shan Thursday sell-off was 'rare, ugly and worrying,' Evercore's Guha says Thursday's washout in the stock market showed that investors care clamoring for still more clarity from President Donald Trump regarding tariffs, according to Evercore ISI strategist Krishna Guha. "Today's trading has seen a rare, ugly and worrying combination of market moves with the dollar, bonds and equities lower amid renewed volatility and stress cross-asset markets – in spite of a decent enough 30 year Treasury auction," Guha, the firm's head of global policy and central bank strategy, said in a note to clients. The while bond yields at the long end of the curve rose and the U.S. dollar lost nearly 2% against a basket of global currencies. The moves could have been "a spasm," Guha wrote, "But the market is pressing for a bigger U-turn with either a complete cessation of tariffs ex-China, or negotiations with China, or both." — Jeff Cox Stock futures edge higher Thursday evening Shortly after 6 p.m. ET, traded 0.2% higher, while gained 0.2%. added 50 points, or about 0.1%. — Pia Singh Also on CNBC Copyright CNBC This article tagged under: