The wait for the 115 verdict appears set to go on as Manchester City await to learn their fate By - Across the second half of this season, the verdict in the commonly referred to 115 case involving Manchester City has been expected to drop at any time. Manchester City have been charged by the Premier League with breaches of the Premier League’s financial rules. The verdict has been expected for some time, but now a new report indicates that the verdict isn’t expected to be delivered until the summer. It now appears that the matter is set to rumble away until that verdict is delivered. James Ducker has reported for that the verdict in Manchester City’s 115 case is unlikely to land until the summer. Furthermore, Ducker reports that the hearing in front of an independent panel of the 115 case ended in December. As per Ducker’s report, it was expected that the verdict from the independent panel was expected to arrive in the early spring. But as of yet it is yet to be delivered. Lastly, Ducker reports that no deadline was ever set for the verdict to be delivered in the 115 case. Meaning that it is unlikely that the verdict in the case will come out until the summer. EXCL. A verdict in the Premier League’s landmark “115” court battle with Manchester City unlikely before the summer, understands — James Ducker (@TelegraphDucker) It’s business as usual at Manchester City, but the end to the 115 cases is in sight, although the wait is becoming frustrating. While the wait for the 115 continues it’s at Manchester City. On the pitch, the club is determined to secure Champions League football for next season. There is also the upcoming FA Cup semi-final against Nottingham Forest for Pep Guardiola and his team to look forward to. Off the pitch, the Manchester City hierarchy is busy planning for the summer transfer window. The rebuild of Pep Guardiola’s squad is set to continue at the end of this season. Those are the main priorities for the club alongside the FIFA Club World Cup in June. Writing as a Manchester City fan the wait for the 115 verdict is now becoming frustrating. The sooner it is delivered the quicker a resolution to the saga may be in sight. That doesn’t factor in the possibility of potential appeals from the Premier League or Manchester City. But at some point, this ongoing story must end. It’s taken up too much time and taken focus off of matters on the pitch. Yes, it’s a big story, but the day that the verdict is delivered can’t come soon enough. What follows when the verdict is delivered will be a big story in itself. But at least those stories will include the verdict and not endless speculation over potential penalties etc. The wait continues for the verdict in Manchester City’s 115 case. The hope is that it does arrive in the summer and the wait doesn’t extend into next season. Posted by Tags Related Articles