By WASHINGTON -- U.S. egg prices increased in March to reach a new record-high of $6.23 per dozen, despite President Donald Trump’s boasts in mid-month that prices on their way down. occurred even though wholesale prices dipped, and no egg farms reported bird flu outbreaks, The Associated Press said. The increase reported Thursday means consumers and might not get much immediate relief. Demand for eggs is typically elevated until after Easter, which falls on April 20 this year. Indeed, Agriculture Secretary Brooke Rollins warned in March after wholesale prices dipped that the cost of eggs was likely to rise again. “We’re going into Easter season. This is always the highest price for eggs. We expect it to perhaps inch back up,” . Egg prices have reached record highs in recent months as bird flu outbreaks have hit poultry farms and forced producers to cull tens of millions of hens. Trump, who vowed on the campaign trail to bring down grocery prices, continues to claim victory on egg prices. This month, Mr. Trump said that egg prices had , and on Monday, during a press briefing with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu he said that . Data released Thursday by the Bureau of Labor statistics shows that from a year ago. The rise in egg prices came as the BLS reported overall inflation was down from a year ago, with a rate of 2.4% in price increases compared to 2.8% in 2024. But the same report noted that the reductions were due to cooling prices for gasoline, air fares and hotel rooms, a sign the economy is cooling, . BLS data shows that prices for meats, poultry, fish, and eggs index rose 7.9% over the last 12 months. The decline in wholesale prices did not start until mid-March, so there may not have been enough time for the average price for the month to decline even though prices started to fall at the end of the month and grocery stores may not have immediately passed on the lower prices, University of Arkansas agricultural economist Jada Thompson told the AP. Bird flu outbreaks were cited as the major cause of price spikes in January and February. Thirty million egg-laying chickens were killed to prevent the spread of the disease. Only 2.1 million birds were slaughtered in March and none were on egg farms. Egg prices hit one month after setting a , according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Shoppers encountered prices much higher than those averages. In California, the price per dozen topped $12 in some stores. If you purchase a product or register for an account through a link on our site, we may receive compensation. By using this site, you consent to our and agree that your clicks, interactions, and personal information may be collected, recorded, and/or stored by us and social media and other third-party partners in accordance with our