President nominated to serve as the next Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, a position the in February 2025. Known for his loyalty to Trump, Patel has drawn public interest, with many now curious about his background — including his net worth, career, and personal life. “I am proud to announce that Kashyap ‘Kash’ Patel will serve as the next Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,” Trump wrote in his formal announcement. “Kash is a brilliant lawyer, investigator, and ‘America First’ fighter who has spent his career exposing corruption, defending Justice, and protecting the American People.” It was also revealed that Patel briefly served as acting director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), which falls under the Department of Justice. The dual role was unusual, and when his removal from the ATF post was announced on April 9 without explanation, many were surprised. “Director Kash Patel was briefly designated ATF Director while awaiting Senate confirmations — a standard, short-term move,” White House spokesman Harrison Fields explained in a statement. Patel was replaced by U.S. Army Secretary Daniel Driscoll , who will now hold both positions simultaneously. Learn more about Patel below, including details on his net worth. FBI director nominee Kash Patel begins his confirmation hearing with a “word of prayer” following the deadly midair collision near D.C. “I pray for their families, I pray for law enforcement and military personnel, and I pray for their souls.” — ABC News (@ABC) Who Is Kash Patel? Patel was born in 1980 to Indian immigrant parents. He grew up in Garden City, New York, and graduated from the University of Richmond in 2002. Patel eventually earned a certificate in international law from University College London Faculty of Laws. In 2005, he completed his law degree at Pace University. In 2018, the former public defender served as an aide to Rep. Devin Nunes , the top Republican on the House Intelligence Committee, where he gained Trump’s favor during the Russia investigation. Trump praised Patel for this in his social media post, stating he “played a pivotal role in uncovering the Russia, Russia, Russia Hoax, standing as an advocate for truth, accountability, and the Constitution.” One year later, Patel joined the National Security Council before becoming chief of staff to the acting defense secretary in the final year of Trump’s first term. What Is Patel’s Net Worth? Patel has a net worth of $5 million, according to . A recent financial disclosure revealed that he earned at least $2.6 million over the past year alone. How Does Patel Make His Money? After graduating from law school in 2005, Patel spent eight years working as a public defender in Florida. He initially worked with the Miami-Dade County Public Defender’s Office, and then as a federal public defender. In 2014, he joined the U.S. Department of Justice’s National Security Division as a trial attorney and served as a legal liaison to the Joint Special Operations Command. In 2017, Patel was appointed senior counsel for counterterrorism in the House Intelligence Committee. His latest financial disclosure, which revealed he earned at least $2.6 million in the past year, shows that much of his income stemmed from consulting, media appearances, speaking fees, and book deals. The primary source of his earnings—over $2.1 million—was national security, defense, and intelligence consulting through his firm, Trishul LLC. Trishul LLC’s clients include Trump Media & Technology Group, the Embassy of Qatar, and Czech financial services company CSGM. Since 2022, Patel has served on the board of Trump Media & Technology Group, which owns Truth Social, and also holds a consulting contract reportedly worth at least $120,000 annually. Patel also revealed ownership of several assets, including up to $5 million in stock from the fashion and skincare retailer EliteDepot and up to $250,000 in stock from tactical gear company VK Integrated Systems. Additionally, his stock portfolio includes up to $250,000 in chip designer NVIDIA, up to $250,000 in Bitcoin mining company Core Scientific, and up to $115,000 in a Bitcoin ETF. Patel, who authored the 2023 partial memoir Government Gangsters and has also published two pro-Trump children’s books, earned between $145,000 and $1.2 million from his book deals. Is Patel Married? It appears that Patel is not married. According to The New York Times , Patel entered and later dropped out of an charity bachelor auction in 2014 benefiting the Switchboard of Miami after a blogger noted that his law license appeared to be outdated in the state. He is, however, currently dating country singer and Republican press secretary . Their relationship drew public attention after in February. Wilkins, who is 18 years younger than Patel, first met him at a ReAwaken America event in October 2022, and the pair began dating in January 2023.