SEPTA’s announcement of potential train and bus service curtailments on Thursday along with layoffs sent shudders through the Philadelphia region. There are to be public hearings on the proposals in May, with the cuts starting July 1, if the proposals play out. At issue is state funding of the mass transit system that about 800,000 access daily. A phased-in 45% reduction in services, a 21.5% increase in fares, elimination of 32 bus routes and shortening more than a dozen others was part of the draconian cuts the transit service unveiled. Then there was hiring and wage freezes as well. The state already has pumped $153 million into SEPTA for this fiscal year. That occurred in November when Gov. Josh Shapiro diverted federal highway funding to provide a one-time injection of cash into the mass transit system to help it avoid near-term service cutbacks and delay fare increases. Now, it’s six months later and the problem is back with politicians looking to Harrisburg for a solution. State Sen. Tim Kearney, D-26, Swarthmore, was the first to react to Thursday’s announcement, saying, “These cuts would start a death spiral for SEPTA, resulting in the loss of one of the nation’s greatest transit systems and strongest metropolitan economies. “Simply put, this cannot come to pass and failure is not an option. Our legislative leaders in Greater Philadelphia cannot go home this summer without a budget that saves SEPTA. “The massive inflation and demographic effects of the pandemic have increased the cost of providing service along with the cost of deferred equipment maintenance and replacement due to underinvestment. “If the Legislature forces SEPTA to make its proposed cuts, our roads will be a nightmare, businesses all over the region will lose workers and face costly business disruptions or closures, property values will decline and local and state tax revenue will be hit.” Pennsylvania House Democratic leaders said made much of he same case, arguing for more state money and pointing a finger across the aisle: “We know how important SEPTA is to our region and we share Gov. Josh Shapiro’s commitment to fund public transit. The governor proposed funding mass transit systems statewide in the last budget cycle and in his current proposal, and House Democrats passed legislation to fund SEPTA and mass transit systems three times last session. “The fact is, Senate Republicans refused to move it forward. We’re ready to do the right thing again, but the question remains: Will Senate Republicans again abandon people in their own communities who rely on public transportation systems? “SEPTA is rightly sounding the alarm and we must act, or Philly and the suburbs will see bus and regional rail routes eliminated, reduced service and SEPTA workers and a fare increase.” This is a developing story. Originally Published: April 10, 2025 at 1:06 PM EDT Share this: